# Dataset

The words in words.csv file are the most frequent in English and come from here: http://www.wordfrequency.info/. This contains nouns, adjectives and verbs.

# Libraries

We use a library called [Pattern](\href{http://web.archive.org/web/20190516161631/https://www.clips.uantwerpen.be/pages/pattern-en), which allows us to conjugate verbs, as well as toggle nouns between singular and plural.

We also use the [Datamuse API](\href{https://www.datamuse.com/api/), which lets us find words which are semantically related to a given word in a certain way.

# Definitions

__Holonym__: something is one of its constituents; "lightbulb" is a holonym of "lamp".

__Meronym__: an object which something is part of; "house" is a meronym of "kitchen".

# Stories

For each story, we chose a random noun from the dataset, which we call the topic.

We query from the __Datamuse API__ for an adjective often modified by the topic belonging to the dataset of words. If none are found, then we do not need to use an adjective.

We also ask the __Datamuse API__ to find verbs that are related to the chosen topic. We chose one and this becomes the lexical verb. If it cannot find one then we use the verb "to be".

# Story Types

Using this tool it is possible to generate stories which lead to two types of summaries: conjunctive and descriptive.

## Conjunctive Summaries

We create stories which consist of multiple sentences, all having the story's topic as a subject, as well as using the lexical verb. For a 3 sentence story, the format would be as follows: `S V O1. S V O2. S V O3.`.

For the object of each sentence, we query from the __Datamuse API__ for a noun that is either a holonym or meronym of the subject noun, that is related to the story's nouns so far, and which often appears right after the story's lexical verb. In the same way as for the subject, we also try and find an adjective commonly modified by this noun.

The expected summary, as generated by TextToSummary, will then be of the following form: `S V OA and OB. S V OC`, where `[OA, OB, OC]` is some permutation of `[O1, O2, O3]`.

### Example

Story: `the publication printed a lightning . the publication printed a movement . the publication printed the stereotype .`

Summary: `the publication printed a lightning and a movement . the publication printed the stereotype . ` 

## Descriptive Summary

We create stories which consist of 2 sentences, the first of which is essentially a single-sentence story of type conjunctive (as described above).

The second sentence always starts with "it was". For the object, the first sentence's object noun is copied over, and to it is added a commonly used adjective for this word.   

Therefore, the format is as follows: `S V O. [it] [was] A O.`.

The expected summary, as generated by TextToSummary, will then have the form: `S V A O.`.

### Example

Story: `the heavy traffic transported the birthday . it was the isolated birthday .`

Summary: `the heavy traffic transported the isolated birthday .`